# .log
In this document, basic log training will be provided alongside use cases for the information provided.

### What is a .log file?
A log file is a debug file generated by the application to facilitate the understanding of the problem that occurred with the end-user.

Generally, a log is designed to be easy to read by technical people or developers, but it can change depending on how the application was coded and if the log was made to be read by people outside the developing team.

#### What can be extracted from a log?

A log describes what happened from the time the application started to record information and sometimes can even expose what makes and how the product was made, something that helps in understanding and troubleshooting problems alongside sometimes exposing potential attack vectors.

### Log reading tips and tricks

This section will give information on the basic log reading and a quick start to understanding what is contained in the log.

#### The Callstack
The callstack is the easiest and most important part of the log as it informs the last breath of the software before a crash, containing information that can be useful to know what happened in the program that caused the issue to occur.

**This is an exemple of a callstack from Unreal Engine:**
```cpp
[1] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: === Critical error: ===
[2] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: 
[3] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: Fatal error!
[4] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: 
[5] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: Unhandled Exception: EXCEPTION_ACCESS_VIOLATION reading address 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here)
[6] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: 
[7] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: [Callstack] 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here) application.exe!something::crashed::here::yay<() [C:\Unfortunatelly\it\contains\information\that\should\not\be\disclosed\due\to\nda\(This is the important file).cpp:65]
[8] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: [Callstack] 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here) application.exe!something::crashed::here::yay() [C:\.exe!something::crashed::here::yay<() [C:\Unfortunatelly\it\contains\information\that\should\not\be\disclosed\due\to\nda\(This is the important file again).cpp:25]
[9] This callstack was cut down
[10] [D:\More\Information\that\cannot\be\disclosed\about\the\application\(This is theimportant file).inl:288]
[11] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: [Callstack] 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here) (This is a dynamic library).DLL!UnknownFunction []
[12] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: [Callstack] 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here) (This is another dynamic library).dll!UnknownFunction []
[13] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: 
[14] [Date and time][ 74]LogExit: Executing StaticShutdownAfterError
[15] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: FPlatformMisc::RequestExit(1)
[16] [Date and time][ 74]LogCore: Engine exit requested (reason: Win RequestExit)
[17] [Date and time][ 74]Log file closed, (Date and time)
```

In the log body, it is possible to note that on the line `[1]`, there is a giant flag indicating that the information below is important, it is something that can help to quickly identify the callstack when scrolling in the log file.

`[1] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: === Critical error: ===`

After identifying the callstack, we can know the general problem by reading the line `[5]` in with the callstack will display an error that can be easily searched for more information about on the internet, in with this example is a program that is trying to read, writes or executes an invalid memory address.

`[5] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: Unhandled Exception: EXCEPTION_ACCESS_VIOLATION reading address 0x0000(12 characters will be present here)`

The information after the line `[5]`can be used as a reference to compare logs and problems, as the same error can occur with different files in the application, resulting in different fixes/bugs.

`[7] [Date and time][ 74]LogWindows: Error: [Callstack] 0x0000(12 caracteres will be present here) application.exe!something::crashed::here::yay<() [C:\Unfortunatelly\it\contains\information\that\should\not\be\disclosed\due\to\nda\(This is the important file).cpp:65]`


The last thing in the callstack is the exit sequence, something that started in the line `[13]` and ended in the line `[17]`, it can differ from applications and bugs, as every log is unique in its way, but the knowledge to understand is universal, and is something that needs to be updated to every case.

And here we end the log reading with the same words as the log presented.

`[17] [Date and time][ 74]Log file closed, (Date and time)`





































